Documentation example for deploying to Google Cloud with Static Web Apps (#2740)
commercetools/merchant-center-application-kit: website/src/content/deployment-examples/google-cloud-static-web-apps.mdx

```json title="custom-application-config.json"
{
  "env": {
    "production": {
      "applicationId": "ckvtahxl90097sys6har1e6n3",
      "url": "https://<custom_domain>"
    }
  }
}
```

## Using environment variables

In case you want to avoid hardcoding certain values, for example the Application ID, or the Project key, you can [use variable placeholders](/api-reference/application-config#using-variable-placeholders) in your Custom Application config.

```json title="custom-application-config.json" highlightLines="4"
{
  "env": {
    "production": {
      "applicationId": "${env:APPLICATION_ID}",
      "url": "https://<custom_domain>"
    }
  }
}
```

# Set up Google Cloud

To host the production bundles of your Custom Application you need to create a [Cloud Storage bucket](https://console.cloud.google.com/storage) in Google cloud and [configure](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/hosting-static-website#create-bucket) the bucket.

Make sure you are the owner and administrator of your domain.

<Info>

>  Your domain name should be registered with a valid [secure certificates](https://support.google.com/domains/answer/7630973?hl=en&visit_id=637951191082633113-3999318342&rd=1) to avoid an internal server error from the Merchant enter.

Reviewer: Perhaps we want to rephrase this message to focus on the requirement we have about HTTPS and valid SSL certificates.

Maybe something like this:
```suggestion
Merchant Center only allows accessing your Custom Application using a secure protocol (HTTPS) so your domain must support it with a valid [SSL certificate](https://support.google.com/domains/answer/7630973?hl=en&visit_id=637951191082633113-3999318342&rd=1) .
```

Author: Yes, thanks!

Author: updated here https://github.com/commercetools/merchant-center-application-kit/pull/2740/commits/92e71e27b5c2c01bebe152372120c971669b6c33

---
title: Deploying to Google Cloud with Static Web Apps
---

This deployment example refers to [Google Cloud Static Web Apps](https://codelabs.developers.google.com/codelabs/cloud-webapp-hosting-gcs#0)

# Prerequisites

Before you get started, you need to have:

> - A [Google](https://accounts.google.com/SignUp) account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A [Google account](https://accounts.google.com/SignUp).
```

# Domain verification

Creating buckets with domain names requires to verify the ownership of the domain.

<Info>

Google does not provide a domain by default when using Google Cloud Storage. If you don't have an existing domain, then there are many services through which you can register a new domain, such as [Google Domains](https://domains.google.com/).

</Info>

We recommend following the instructions for [Domain-named bucket verification](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/domain-name-verification) to configure things properly.

Another way to verify your domain is by using a [load balancer](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/hosting-static-website#lb-ssl). You have the chance to upload an SSL certificate to your load balancer. If you are using Google Domain Name Service, in your domain [configuration](https://codelabs.developers.google.com/codelabs/cloud-webapp-hosting-gcs#2), add a new record that points your domain to the IP address of the load balancer you created.

> # Connect Google cloud with GitHub Actions

Reviewer 3: nit: only for consistency on the page
```suggestion
# Connect Google Cloud with GitHub Actions
```

One of the ways to deploy to Google Cloud Storage (GCS) is to use [Cloud Storage Uploader](https://github.com/google-github-actions/upload-cloud-storage) GitHub Action. Follow the instructions to integrate it with your repository CI.

## Configuring rewrite rules

> A Custom Application is a Single-Page Application that uses client-side routing. Therefore, we need to [edit website configuration](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/hosting-static-website#specialty-pages) for our bucket to rewrite all requests to serve the `index.html`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Custom Application is a Single-Page Application that uses client-side routing. So, you need to [edit website configuration](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/hosting-static-website#specialty-pages) for your bucket to rewrite all requests to serve the `index.html`.
```

# Production bundles

The main command to create the production bundles is `mc-scripts build`. The output folder is `public`.<br />
See [Going to production](/development/going-to-production) for more information.

# Test your deployment

> In the Merchant Center you can now [follow the steps to install the Custom Application](https://docs.commercetools.com/merchant-center/managing-custom-applications) and access it in your Projects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the Merchant Center, you can now follow the [steps to install the Custom Application](https://docs.commercetools.com/merchant-center/managing-custom-applications) and access it in your Projects.
```

Author: Thanks for the feedback. updated here: https://github.com/commercetools/merchant-center-application-kit/pull/2740/commits/ef87878072ec3bfb20864e044bcaaf0a0325e9f8
